README.md, before:

# MegaMinds - AI Development Team Framework

A multi-agent workflow system that orchestrates specialized AI agents to work together as a cohesive development team. MegaMinds transforms Claude Code into a collaborative AI development environment where different agents handle specific aspects of software development - from planning and architecture to implementation and deployment.

## Overview

MegaMinds creates an intelligent development ecosystem where:
- **Specialized AI agents** work on their areas of expertise (frontend, backend, database, testing, etc.)
- **Smart coordination** ensures agents collaborate effectively and hand off work seamlessly
- **Quality gates** enforce high standards before any code progresses
- **Memory management** maintains context across long development sessions
- **Decision councils** bring together expert agents for critical technical choices

## Key Features

### 🤖 30+ Specialized Agents
- **Planning & Strategy**: Project orchestration, requirements analysis, risk assessment
- **Design & Architecture**: UX/UI design, database schemas, API design, security architecture
- **Development**: Frontend, backend, database, authentication implementations
- **Quality Assurance**: Testing, code review, performance analysis, security auditing
- **DevOps**: CI/CD pipelines, infrastructure, monitoring, backup/recovery
- **Business Operations**: Analytics, customer support, marketing automation
- **SaaS Features**: Multi-tenancy, subscription management, onboarding flows

### 🧠 Intelligent Memory System
- Automatic context compression when approaching token limits
- Session save/restore for long-running projects
- Architecture documentation that evolves with your project
- Agent state tracking across handoffs

### 🛡️ Quality-First Development
- Mandatory code reviews before deployment
- Comprehensive testing requirements
- Security scanning at every stage
- Performance benchmarking and optimization

### 🏛️ Smart Decision Making
- Decision councils for technology choices
- Expert consultation during development
- Problem-solving swarms for critical issues
- Clear escalation paths for blockers

### 🔗 Claude Code Hooks Integration (NEW)
- **Automated Quality Gates**: Auto-run tests and code review after every code change
- **Smart Session Management**: Automatically save sessions when agents complete work
- **Intelligent Context Preservation**: Protect critical workflow state during memory compaction
- **Real-time Notifications**: Desktop alerts for key development milestones
- **Zero-Configuration Setup**: One command enables all automation features

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 14.0 or higher
- npm or yarn package manager
- Claude Code (for AI agent execution)

### Installation Methods

#### Method 1: Global Installation (Recommended)

```bash
# Install globally
npm install -g mega-minds

# Install to project
npm install mega-minds

# Navigate to your project
cd your-project

# Initialize mega-minds
mega-minds init
```

This will:
1. Create `.claude/` directory with agents and workflows
2. Add mega-minds to your package.json dependencies
3. Install the dependency automatically

#### Method 2: Project-Specific Installation

```bash
# Install as project dependency
cd your-project
npm install mega-minds --save

# Initialize the agents
npx mega-minds init
```

### How It Works

MegaMinds operates in two parts:

1. **Agent Templates** (`.claude/` directory):
   - Sub-agent markdown files for Claude Code
   - Workflow definitions and protocols
   - Main configuration file (claude.md)

2. **Core Functionality** (`node_modules/mega-minds/`):
   - SessionManager for development sessions
   - TokenManager for context optimization
   - MemoryManager for project memory
   - AgentStateTracker for coordination
   - CLI tools for management

## Getting Started

### 1. Initialize MegaMinds in Your Project

Navigate to your project directory and run:

```bash
mega-minds init
```

This will:
- Create a `.claude/` directory with all agent templates
- Generate a `claude.md` file that Claude Code will automatically read
- Add mega-minds to your package.json as a dependency
- Set up workflow configurations and protocols
- Initialize the memory management system

**Post-Installation Structure:**
```
your-project/
├── .claude/
│   ├── agents/          # Claude Code sub-agents
│   ├── workflows/       # Communication protocols
│   └── claude.md        # Main configuration
├── node_modules/
│   └── mega-minds/      # Core AI team functionality
└── package.json         # Updated with mega-minds dependency
```

### 2. Start Claude Code

Open Claude Code in your project directory. It will automatically read the `.claude/claude.md` file and have access to all MegaMinds capabilities.

**Important:** The mega-minds package must remain installed as a dependency for the memory management and coordination features to work properly.

### 3. Enable Automated Hooks (Optional but Recommended)

Enable Claude Code hooks for automated workflow enhancement:

```bash
npx mega-minds setup-hooks
```

This will configure:
- **Quality Gates**: Automatic testing after code changes
- **Session Auto-Save**: Persistent development sessions
- **Context Preservation**: Smart memory management
- **Desktop Notifications**: Real-time development alerts

### 4. Begin Development

Start with a high-level request to Claude Code:

```
"I want to build a task management SaaS application with user authentication, 
team collaboration, real-time updates, and subscription billing."
```

The AI development team will:
1. Analyze your requirements
2. Create a technical architecture
3. Design the user interface
4. Implement features systematically
5. Test everything thoroughly
6. Set up deployment infrastructure

With hooks enabled, quality gates and session saves happen automatically!

## Available Commands

### Initialization
- `mega-minds init` - Initialize MegaMinds in your project

### Project Management (use with `npx` after installation)
- `npx mega-minds agent-status` - View current agent activities
- `npx mega-minds save-session "description"` - Save current development state
- `npx mega-minds load-session` - Restore previous session
- `npx mega-minds stats` - Show project statistics

### Memory Management (use with `npx` after installation)
- `npx mega-minds memory-status` - Check memory health and usage
- `npx mega-minds memory-cleanup` - Force memory cleanup and garbage collection
- `npx mega-minds compress-context` - Optimize memory when approaching limits
- `npx mega-minds update-memory "what happened"` - Update project documentation

### 🔗 Claude Code Hooks Integration (NEW)
- `npx mega-minds setup-hooks` - Configure automated workflow hooks
- `npx mega-minds hook-status` - Check hook configuration and activity
- `npx mega-minds trigger-quality-gates` - Manual quality gate execution
- `npx mega-minds save-session-auto` - Hook-triggered session save
- `npx mega-minds preserve-context` - Smart context preservation

**Note:** After installation, use `npx mega-minds` to run commands, ensuring you're using the project-specific version.

## How It Works

### Agent Coordination Flow

1. **Request Analysis**: Your request is analyzed to determine which agents are needed
2. **Planning Phase**: The project orchestrator creates an execution plan
3. **Parallel Execution**: Multiple agents work simultaneously on independent tasks
4. **Quality Gates**: All work passes through review before progressing
5. **Integration**: Components are integrated with proper testing
6. **Deployment**: Final deployment with monitoring and backup systems

### Memory Management

MegaMinds maintains intelligent memory across sessions:
- **Architecture Documentation**: Technical decisions and system design
- **Recent Work Log**: What was accomplished in recent sessions
- **Active Context**: Current focus areas and pending tasks
- **Agent State**: Which agents are working on what

### Quality Enforcement

Every piece of work must pass quality checks:
- Code review by specialized review agents
- Automated testing at unit, integration, and e2e levels
- Security scanning for vulnerabilities
- Performance testing for scalability

## Example Workflows

### Building a New Feature
```
User: "Add a commenting system to the blog posts"
```
MegaMinds will coordinate:
- Requirements analysis for comment features
- Database schema design for comments
- API endpoint creation
- Frontend UI implementation
- Real-time update system
- Moderation capabilities
- Testing and deployment

### Technical Decision Making
```
User: "Should we use PostgreSQL or MongoDB for our application?"
```
MegaMinds will convene a decision council with:
- Database architecture agent
- Performance testing agent
- Infrastructure agent
- Security architecture agent

### Emergency Response
```
User: "The application is running slowly in production"
```
MegaMinds activates a problem-solving swarm:
- Monitoring agent checks metrics
- Database agent analyzes queries
- Performance agent identifies bottlenecks
- Infrastructure agent reviews resources

## Project Structure

After initialization, your project will have:

```
your-project/
├── .mega-minds/
│   ├── memory/
│   │   ├── architecture.md      # System design documentation
│   │   ├── recent-work.md       # Recent development log
│   │   └── sessions/            # Saved session states
│   ├── agents/
│   │   └── active-context.md    # Current agent activities
│   └── logs/
│       └── handoffs.log         # Agent coordination log
├── CLAUDE.md                     # Main interface for Claude Code
└── [your project files]
```

## Best Practices

1. **Start with Clear Requirements**: The more specific your initial request, the better the results
2. **Trust the Process**: Let agents hand off work naturally rather than micromanaging
3. **Save Sessions Regularly**: Use `mega-minds save-session` before major changes
4. **Monitor Token Usage**: Use `compress-context` when Claude Code mentions token limits
5. **Review Agent Decisions**: Check the decision logs to understand technical choices

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**"Token limit approaching"**
- Run `mega-minds compress-context` to optimize memory
- Save current session and start fresh if needed

**"Agent handoff failed"**
- Check `.mega-minds/logs/handoffs.log` for details
- Ensure all quality gates are passing
- Restart the specific agent task

**"Memory not persisting"**
- Verify `.mega-minds/` directory exists
- Check file permissions
- Run `mega-minds init` again if needed

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit issues and pull requests to improve MegaMinds.

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

## Author

Jesse Jones

## Acknowledgments

Built to enhance Claude Code's capabilities for complex software development projects. Special thanks to the AI development community for inspiration and feedback.

---

**Note**: MegaMinds requires Claude Code to function as it provides the AI agent execution environment. The framework orchestrates how Claude Code approaches complex development tasks but does not replace the need for Claude Code itself.

Commit message:

Improve UX for non-technical users with clearer terminal vs Claude Code instructions

README.md, after:

# MegaMinds - AI Development Team Framework

A multi-agent workflow system that orchestrates specialized AI agents to work together as a cohesive development team. MegaMinds transforms Claude Code into a collaborative AI development environment where different agents handle specific aspects of software development - from planning and architecture to implementation and deployment.

## Overview

MegaMinds creates an intelligent development ecosystem where:
- **Specialized AI agents** work on their areas of expertise (frontend, backend, database, testing, etc.)
- **Smart coordination** ensures agents collaborate effectively and hand off work seamlessly
- **Quality gates** enforce high standards before any code progresses
- **Memory management** maintains context across long development sessions
- **Decision councils** bring together expert agents for critical technical choices

## Key Features

### 🤖 30+ Specialized Agents
- **Planning & Strategy**: Project orchestration, requirements analysis, risk assessment
- **Design & Architecture**: UX/UI design, database schemas, API design, security architecture
- **Development**: Frontend, backend, database, authentication implementations
- **Quality Assurance**: Testing, code review, performance analysis, security auditing
- **DevOps**: CI/CD pipelines, infrastructure, monitoring, backup/recovery
- **Business Operations**: Analytics, customer support, marketing automation
- **SaaS Features**: Multi-tenancy, subscription management, onboarding flows

### 🧠 Intelligent Memory System
- Automatic context compression when approaching token limits
- Session save/restore for long-running projects
- Architecture documentation that evolves with your project
- Agent state tracking across handoffs

### 🛡️ Quality-First Development
- Mandatory code reviews before deployment
- Comprehensive testing requirements
- Security scanning at every stage
- Performance benchmarking and optimization

### 🏛️ Smart Decision Making
- Decision councils for technology choices
- Expert consultation during development
- Problem-solving swarms for critical issues
- Clear escalation paths for blockers

### 🔗 Claude Code Hooks Integration (NEW)
- **Automated Quality Gates**: Auto-run tests and code review after every code change
- **Smart Session Management**: Automatically save sessions when agents complete work
- **Intelligent Context Preservation**: Protect critical workflow state during memory compaction
- **Real-time Notifications**: Desktop alerts for key development milestones
- **Zero-Configuration Setup**: One command enables all automation features

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 14.0 or higher
- npm or yarn package manager
- Claude Code (for AI agent execution)

### Installation Methods

#### Method 1: Global Installation (Recommended)

```bash
# Install globally
npm install -g mega-minds

# Install to project
npm install mega-minds

# Navigate to your project
cd your-project

# Initialize mega-minds
mega-minds init
```

This will:
1. Create `.claude/` directory with agents and workflows
2. Add mega-minds to your package.json dependencies
3. Install the dependency automatically

#### Method 2: Project-Specific Installation

```bash
# Install as project dependency
cd your-project
npm install mega-minds --save

# Initialize the agents
npx mega-minds init
```

### How It Works

MegaMinds operates in two parts:

1. **Agent Templates** (`.claude/` directory):
   - Sub-agent markdown files for Claude Code
   - Workflow definitions and protocols
   - Main configuration file (claude.md)

2. **Core Functionality** (`node_modules/mega-minds/`):
   - SessionManager for development sessions
   - TokenManager for context optimization
   - MemoryManager for project memory
   - AgentStateTracker for coordination
   - CLI tools for management

## Getting Started

### 1. Initialize MegaMinds in Your Project

Navigate to your project directory and run:

```bash
mega-minds init
```

This will:
- Create a `.claude/` directory with all agent templates
- Generate a `claude.md` file that Claude Code will automatically read
- Add mega-minds to your package.json as a dependency
- Set up workflow configurations and protocols
- Initialize the memory management system

**Post-Installation Structure:**
```
your-project/
├── .claude/
│   ├── agents/          # Claude Code sub-agents
│   ├── workflows/       # Communication protocols
│   └── claude.md        # Main configuration
├── node_modules/
│   └── mega-minds/      # Core AI team functionality
└── package.json         # Updated with mega-minds dependency
```

### 2. Start Claude Code

Open Claude Code in your project directory. It will automatically read the `.claude/claude.md` file and have access to all MegaMinds capabilities.

**Important:** The mega-minds package must remain installed as a dependency for the memory management and coordination features to work properly.

### 3. Enable Automated Hooks (Optional but Recommended)

**🚨 IMPORTANT FOR NON-TECHNICAL USERS:**

The hooks setup command must be run in your **computer's regular terminal**, NOT in Claude Code:

#### For Mac Users:
1. Press `Cmd + Space` 
2. Type "Terminal" and press Enter
3. Navigate to your project: `cd path/to/your/project`
4. Run: `npx mega-minds setup-hooks`

#### For Windows Users:
1. Press `Win + R`
2. Type "cmd" and press Enter  
3. Navigate to your project: `cd path\to\your\project`
4. Run: `npx mega-minds setup-hooks`

#### What This Enables:
- **Auto Quality Gates**: Tests and code review run automatically after code changes
- **Smart Session Saves**: Your work is automatically saved when agents finish tasks
- **Context Protection**: Preserves important workflow state during memory cleanup
- **Development Notifications**: Desktop alerts for key milestones

**Once setup is complete, everything else works automatically in Claude Code!**

### 4. Begin Development

Start with a high-level request to Claude Code:

```
"I want to build a task management SaaS application with user authentication, 
team collaboration, real-time updates, and subscription billing."
```

The AI development team will:
1. Analyze your requirements
2. Create a technical architecture
3. Design the user interface
4. Implement features systematically
5. Test everything thoroughly
6. Set up deployment infrastructure

With hooks enabled, quality gates and session saves happen automatically!

## Available Commands

### Initialization
- `mega-minds init` - Initialize MegaMinds in your project

### Project Management (use with `npx` after installation)
- `npx mega-minds agent-status` - View current agent activities
- `npx mega-minds save-session "description"` - Save current development state
- `npx mega-minds load-session` - Restore previous session
- `npx mega-minds stats` - Show project statistics

### Memory Management (use with `npx` after installation)
- `npx mega-minds memory-status` - Check memory health and usage
- `npx mega-minds memory-cleanup` - Force memory cleanup and garbage collection
- `npx mega-minds compress-context` - Optimize memory when approaching limits
- `npx mega-minds update-memory "what happened"` - Update project documentation

### 🔗 Claude Code Hooks Integration (NEW)
- `npx mega-minds setup-hooks` - Configure automated workflow hooks
- `npx mega-minds hook-status` - Check hook configuration and activity
- `npx mega-minds trigger-quality-gates` - Manual quality gate execution
- `npx mega-minds save-session-auto` - Hook-triggered session save
- `npx mega-minds preserve-context` - Smart context preservation

**Note:** After installation, use `npx mega-minds` to run commands, ensuring you're using the project-specific version.

## How It Works

### Agent Coordination Flow

1. **Request Analysis**: Your request is analyzed to determine which agents are needed
2. **Planning Phase**: The project orchestrator creates an execution plan
3. **Parallel Execution**: Multiple agents work simultaneously on independent tasks
4. **Quality Gates**: All work passes through review before progressing
5. **Integration**: Components are integrated with proper testing
6. **Deployment**: Final deployment with monitoring and backup systems

### Memory Management

MegaMinds maintains intelligent memory across sessions:
- **Architecture Documentation**: Technical decisions and system design
- **Recent Work Log**: What was accomplished in recent sessions
- **Active Context**: Current focus areas and pending tasks
- **Agent State**: Which agents are working on what

### Quality Enforcement

Every piece of work must pass quality checks:
- Code review by specialized review agents
- Automated testing at unit, integration, and e2e levels
- Security scanning for vulnerabilities
- Performance testing for scalability

## Example Workflows

### Building a New Feature
```
User: "Add a commenting system to the blog posts"
```
MegaMinds will coordinate:
- Requirements analysis for comment features
- Database schema design for comments
- API endpoint creation
- Frontend UI implementation
- Real-time update system
- Moderation capabilities
- Testing and deployment

### Technical Decision Making
```
User: "Should we use PostgreSQL or MongoDB for our application?"
```
MegaMinds will convene a decision council with:
- Database architecture agent
- Performance testing agent
- Infrastructure agent
- Security architecture agent

### Emergency Response
```
User: "The application is running slowly in production"
```
MegaMinds activates a problem-solving swarm:
- Monitoring agent checks metrics
- Database agent analyzes queries
- Performance agent identifies bottlenecks
- Infrastructure agent reviews resources

## Project Structure

After initialization, your project will have:

```
your-project/
├── .mega-minds/
│   ├── memory/
│   │   ├── architecture.md      # System design documentation
│   │   ├── recent-work.md       # Recent development log
│   │   └── sessions/            # Saved session states
│   ├── agents/
│   │   └── active-context.md    # Current agent activities
│   └── logs/
│       └── handoffs.log         # Agent coordination log
├── CLAUDE.md                     # Main interface for Claude Code
└── [your project files]
```

## Best Practices

1. **Start with Clear Requirements**: The more specific your initial request, the better the results
2. **Trust the Process**: Let agents hand off work naturally rather than micromanaging
3. **Save Sessions Regularly**: Use `mega-minds save-session` before major changes
4. **Monitor Token Usage**: Use `compress-context` when Claude Code mentions token limits
5. **Review Agent Decisions**: Check the decision logs to understand technical choices

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**"Token limit approaching"**
- Run `mega-minds compress-context` to optimize memory
- Save current session and start fresh if needed

**"Agent handoff failed"**
- Check `.mega-minds/logs/handoffs.log` for details
- Ensure all quality gates are passing
- Restart the specific agent task

**"Memory not persisting"**
- Verify `.mega-minds/` directory exists
- Check file permissions
- Run `mega-minds init` again if needed

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit issues and pull requests to improve MegaMinds.

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

## Author

Jesse Jones

## Acknowledgments

Built to enhance Claude Code's capabilities for complex software development projects. Special thanks to the AI development community for inspiration and feedback.

---

**Note**: MegaMinds requires Claude Code to function as it provides the AI agent execution environment. The framework orchestrates how Claude Code approaches complex development tasks but does not replace the need for Claude Code itself.
